[SE-0410] Updates for Atomics addressing review (#2203)
apple/swift-evolution: proposals/0410-atomics.md

### `WordPair`

In their current single-word form, atomic pointer and reference types are susceptible to a class of race condition called the *ABA problem*. A freshly allocated object often happens to be placed at the same memory location as a recently deallocated one. Therefore, two successive `load`s of a simple atomic pointer may return the exact same value, even though the pointer may have received an arbitrary number of updates between the two loads, and the pointee may have been completely replaced. This can be a subtle, but deadly source of race conditions in naive implementations of many concurrent data structures.

While the single-word atomic primitives introduced in this document are already useful for some applications, it would be helpful to also provide a set of additional atomic operations that operate on two consecutive `Int`-sized values in the same transaction. All currently supported architectures provide direct hardware support for such "double-word" atomic operations.

We propose a new separate type that provides an abstraction over the layout of what a double-word is for a platform.

```swift

> public struct WordPair {

Author: This is a good point. I'm worried to change the name of this thing again especially after we've sort of mostly been accepted. 🤔

| Method Name | Returns | Implements |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `wrappingAdd(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a &+= b`  |
| `wrappingSubtract(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a &-= b`  |
| `add(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a += b` (checks for overflow) |
| `subtract(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a -= b` (checks for overflow) |
| `bitwiseAnd(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a &= b` |
| `bitwiseOr(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a \|= b` |
| `bitwiseXor(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a ^= b` |
| `min(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a = Swift.min(a, b)` |
| `max(_: Value, ordering: AtomicUpdateOrdering)` | `(oldValue: Value, newValue: Value)` | `a = Swift.max(a, b)` |

> All operations are also marked as `@discardableResult` in the case where one doesn't care about the old value or new value. The compiler can't optimize the atomic operation away if the return value isn't used. The `add` and `subtract` operations explicitly check for overflow and will trap at runtime if one occurs. This is unchecked in `-Ounchecked` builds. 

Author: I went ahead and dropped this sentence altogether 👍

1. Code completion. Because this name starts with an less common letter in the English alphabet, the likelyhood of seeing this type at the top level in code completion is very unlikely and not generally a type used for newer programmers of Swift.
2. Directly conveys the semantic meaning of the type. This type is not semantically equivalent to something like `{U}Int128` (on 64 bit platforms). While although its layout shares the same size, the meaning we want to drive home with this type is quite simply that it's a pair of `UInt` words. If and when the standard library proposes a `{U}Int128` type, that will add a conformance to `AtomicValue` on 64 bit platforms who support double-words as well. That itself wouldn't deprecate uses of `WordPair` however, because it's much easier to grab both words independently with `WordPair` as well as being a portable name for such semantics on both 32 bit and 64 bit platforms.

### A different name for the `Synchronization` module

> In the initial [return for revision notes](https://forums.swift.org/t/returned-for-revision-se-0410-atomics/68522), the language steering group suggested the name of this module to be `Atomics` as a strawman. I think this name is far too restrictive because it prevents other similar low-level concurrency primitives or somewhat related features like volatile loads/stores from sharing a module. It would also be extremely source breaking for folks that upgrade their Swift SDK to a version that may include this proposed new module while depending on the existing [swift-atomics](https://github.com/apple/swift-atomics) whose module is also named `Atomics`. We shouldn't be afraid of source breaks with potential conflicting module names when introducing a new module to the standard libraries. However, we have a known package using this name who is widely used and would be very source breaking for those using the atomics package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its [notes returning the initial version of this proposal for revision](https://forums.swift.org/t/returned-for-revision-se-0410-atomics/68522), the Swift Language Steering Group suggested the strawman name `Atomics` for this module. I think this name is far too restrictive because it prevents other similar low-level concurrency primitives or somewhat related features like volatile loads/stores from sharing a module. It would also be extremely source breaking for folks that upgrade their Swift SDK to a version that may include this proposed new module while depending on the existing [swift-atomics](https://github.com/apple/swift-atomics) whose module is also named `Atomics`. 

We shouldn't be afraid of conflicting module names causing spurious source breaks when introducing a new module to the standard libraries; however, in this case, the direct precursor package is prominently using this name, and reusing the same module name would cause significant breakage. We expect this package will need to remain in active use for a number of years, as it will be able to provide reimplementations of the constructs proposed here without the ABI availability constraints that come with Standard Library additions.
```

### Rename `AtomicValue` to `AtomicWrappable`

> Another review note from the [revision notes](https://forums.swift.org/t/returned-for-revision-se-0410-atomics/68522) was the naming of the `AtomicValue` protocol. By API design guidelines it probably makes more sense to name this `AtomicWrappable` with our current design, however this proposal proposes `AtomicValue` because we feel the precedent set by the [swift-atomics](https://github.com/apple/swift-atomics) package might make it easier for folks to migrate their existing atomic code to the standard library's new atomic facilties as well as be more familiar with the API in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another review note from the [revision notes](https://forums.swift.org/t/returned-for-revision-se-0410-atomics/68522) was the naming of the `AtomicValue` protocol. By API design guidelines it probably makes more sense to name this `AtomicWrappable` with our current design, however this proposal proposes `AtomicValue` because we feel the precedent set by the [swift-atomics](https://github.com/apple/swift-atomics) package will make it easier for folks to migrate their existing atomic code to the standard library's new atomic facilities.
```
